document non graceful node shutdown feature (#32406)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes.md

Message:        Pod was terminated in response to imminent node shutdown.
```

{{< /note >}}

## Non Graceful node shutdown {#non-graceful-node-shutdown}

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.24" >}}

> A node shutdown action may not be detected by kubelet's Node Shutdown Mananger, either because the command does not trigger the inhibitor locks mechanism used by kubelet or because of a user error, i.e., the ShutdownGracePeriod and ShutdownGracePeriodCriticalPods are not configured properly.

Reviewer: The mechanism is https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/inhibit/

I'd either omit the detail or hyperlink there for context.

> When a node is shutdown but not detected by kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager, the pods that are part of a StatefulSet will be stuck in terminating status on the shutdown node and cannot move to a new running node. This is because kubelet on the shutdown node is not available to delete the pods so the StatefulSet cannot create a new pod with the same name. If there are volumes used by the pods, the VolumeAttachments will not be deleted from the original shutdown node so the volumes used by these pods cannot be attached to a new running node. As a result, the application running on the StatefulSet cannot function properly. If the original shutdown node comes up, the pods will be deleted by kubelet and new pods will be created on a different running node. If the original shutdown node does not come up, these pods will be stuck in terminating status on the shutdown node forever.

Reviewer: DaemonSets rarely have claims against PersistentVolumes, and doing that for a Deployment would be a poor design.

> To mitigate the above situation, a  user can manually add the taint to a Node marking it out-of-service. If the `NodeOutOfServiceVolumeDetach`  [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) is enabled on

Reviewer 2: Why don't you write the taint name `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service` ?

> To mitigate the above situation, a  user can manually add the taint to a Node marking it out-of-service. If the `NodeOutOfServiceVolumeDetach`  [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) is enabled on

Reviewer: I agree with https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/32406/files#r845780345: we should explain which taint to set and what taint type to use with it (eg `NoExecute`).

> `kube-controller-manager`, and a Node is marked out-of-service with this taint, the pods on the node will be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on it and volume detach operations for the pods terminating on the node will happen immediately. This allows the Pods on the out-of-service node to recover quickly on a different node. 

Reviewer 3: The sentence is too looooong. Please consider revise.

> During a non-graceful shutdown, pods are terminated in the two phases:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During a non-graceful node shutdown, Pods are terminated in two phases:
```

> 1. Force delete the pods that does not have matching `out-of-service` toleration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Force delete the Pods that do not have matching `out-of-service` tolerations.
```

2. Immediately perform detach volume operation for such pods. 

{{< note >}}
- Before adding this taint, it should be verified that the node is already in shutdown or power off state (not in the middle of restarting).

> - The user is required to manually remove the out-of-service taint after the pods are moved to a new node and the user has checked that the shutdown node has been recovered since the user was the one who originally added the taint.

Reviewer 3: Another long sentence,  please consider revise?

`kube-controller-manager`, and a Node is marked out-of-service with this taint, the pods on the node will be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on it and volume detach operations for the pods terminating on the node will happen immediately. This allows the Pods on the out-of-service node to recover quickly on a different node. 

During a non-graceful shutdown, pods are terminated in the two phases:

1. Force delete the pods that does not have matching `out-of-service` toleration.
2. Immediately perform detach volume operation for such pods. 

{{< note >}}
- Before adding this taint, it should be verified that the node is already in shutdown or power off state (not in the middle of restarting).
- The user is required to manually remove the out-of-service taint after the pods are moved to a new node and the user has checked that the shutdown node has been recovered since the user was the one who originally added the taint.

```
Reason:         Terminated
Message:        Pod was terminated in response to imminent node shutdown.

> ```

Reviewer 4: Clarify after which step you see this status and exactly which kubectl command did you run to get this output.

Author: That is a miss. I missed to delete that while doing copy/paste. I will remove this.

Author: done
